Good morning, Jacob. Happy Saturday. Here's your week in review
for the week of March twenty-second through March twenty-eighth, twenty
twenty-six. This was Anthropic's week. If you had to write
the screenplay of the best possible seven days a company
could have while simultaneously being sued by the Pentagon, you'd
write this week and then cut half of it for
being unrealistic. A federal judge called the supply-chain designation quote,
classic illegal First Amendment retaliation, end quote, and dropped a
forty-three-page injunction. Bloomberg reported the company is eyeing an October
I-P-O. A misconfigured C-M-S accidentally revealed Claude Mythos, a new
model tier above Opus described as, quote, a step change
in capabilities, end quote. Apple leaked that iOS twenty-seven will
let Claude integrate directly with Siri. And the company's annualized
revenue crossed nineteen billion dollars. That's not a week. That's
a highlight reel. But this was also the week the
Iran war got worse. The Houthis entered the conflict on
Saturday, firing ballistic missiles at Israel in their first attack
since the Hamas ceasefire. Ten U-S service members were injured
in an Iranian strike on Prince Sultan Air Base in
Saudi Arabia. Brent crude hit one hundred twelve dollars and
fifty-seven cents, the highest since July twenty twenty-two. And Congress,
in a display of timing that belongs in a comedy
sketch, rejected the Senate's bipartisan D-H-S funding deal and then
left on a two-week recess. Sixty-one thousand unpaid T-S-A workers
will be thrilled to hear their representatives are on vacation.
Let's start with the highlights. CHAPTER TWO. HIGHLIGHTS AND WINS.
You delivered the B-Rs to the Governor's Office on Thursday,
which had been escalating across four consecutive briefings. You renewed
the GitHub token after six briefings of increasingly desperate reminders.
Both of those items are now off the board, and
the briefing pipeline is intact. At work, you're back in
the rhythm after Spring Break. The legislature returned, the child
care subsidy fight is live, and you stayed up past
eleven-thirty P-M on Wednesday correcting a sixty-five-page document. Katelyn thought
it was, quote, fun to know all this stuff, end
quote. You were less convinced. But the B-Rs got delivered,
which means the sixty-five pages paid off. Katelyn is settled
back in Tacoma after the eight-day Missouri visit. She switched
running shoes from Brooks to Hylo Athletics after a Fleet
Feet fitting. She's thirty-six days out from the Tacoma City
Half Marathon and in full training mode. She also wants
to feed the crows near her place but is worried
about the mess, which is the most Katelyn question of
the week. CHAPTER THREE. STORIES THAT EVOLVED. Three stories defined
this week, and watching them develop across seven daily briefings
reveals patterns no single day captured. Story one. Anthropic versus
the Pentagon. On Sunday, the hearing was thirty-six hours away
and the briefing was tracking the coalition: one hundred fifty
retired judges, Microsoft, retired military chiefs. By Tuesday, Judge Rita
Lin was sharply questioning the Pentagon, asking why the designation
didn't seem, quote, tailored to the stated national security concern,
end quote. She found it, quote, pretty surprising, end quote,
that the D-O-D argued Hegseth's own directive had no legal
effect. Wednesday brought the Axios Behind the Curtain piece, which
was the most important single source on the story since
the lawsuit was filed. It revealed that government officials privately
want Claude for warfighting, that Anthropic is a big reason
the U-S is six to twelve months ahead of China
in A-I for defense, and that the Palantir Maven system
officially replacing Anthropic also runs on Claude. Then Thursday, Lin
ruled. Forty-three pages. Classic illegal First Amendment retaliation. Orwellian. Federal
agencies can resume using Claude immediately. The government has until
April second to appeal, which happens to be the same
day as your Anthropic pilot discussion at work. You can't
script that kind of timing. Story two. The Iran war
arc. The week opened on Day twenty-three with a forty-eight-hour
ultimatum set to expire Monday evening. Trump deferred the deadline
five days on Monday morning, citing peace talks. Iran said
he blinked. Krugman sent five newsletters in four days arguing
the U-S entered this war without the willingness to bear
its costs. By midweek, Gulf nations joined the coalition, Iran
cracked open Hormuz for quote, non-hostile, end quote, ships, and
the U-S sent a fifteen-point ceasefire plan demanding full nuclear
dismantlement. Iran rejected it. By Thursday, the Pentagon was developing
four major escalation scenarios including invading Kharg Island. And Saturday,
the Houthis fired on Israel, opening a new front and
threatening Red Sea shipping lanes. Oil went from about one
hundred two dollars on Tuesday to one hundred twelve on
Saturday. Goldman Sachs says high prices could last through twenty
twenty-seven. The I-E-A called it worse than the nineteen seventies
oil shocks and the Ukraine invasion combined. Story three. The
D-H-S shutdown. Day forty to forty-three. T-S-A workers missed their
third paycheck. Wait times exceeded four hours. Four hundred sixty
officers quit. The Senate passed bipartisan funding at two-twenty A-M
Friday by voice vote, but the House rejected it and
passed their own bill that Senate Democrats called dead on
arrival. Then both chambers left for recess. No resolution is
possible before mid-April. Trump signed an executive order directing immediate
T-S-A pay, but the legal authority is contested and the
officers who quit aren't coming back for an executive order.
CHAPTER FOUR. VAULT ACTIVITY. The vault saw meaningful activity this
week, even if daily note creation was spotty. Three daily
notes were created: March twenty-second, twenty-fifth, and twenty-seventh. The gap
on twenty-third and twenty-fourth tracks with the first days back
at work after Spring Break. The most significant new vault
file was the Anthropic Mythos Capybara Leak note, created March
twenty-seventh. This is a research tracking note for the biggest
Anthropic product news of the month. It includes market impact
data showing cybersecurity stocks dropped five to eleven percent, and
it tracks the Bloomberg I-P-O reporting: October twenty twenty-six at
sixty billion plus. The Riverfront Connector Bridge update was also
created March twenty-seventh, tracking the B-U-I-L-D grant application, the H-B
twenty-one oh-eight land conveyance bill, and the High Street Viaduct
emergency closure. The April seventh election includes a sales tax
vote tied to this project. The Sunday check-in on March
twenty-second was the first in three weeks, covering the full
Katelyn visit arc and resetting the weekly rhythm. Reading diversity
was flagged at seventy-seven percent A-I and tech content, with
a goal to branch out. CHAPTER FIVE. RELATIONSHIP CHECK. Katelyn
flew home on Sunday the twenty-second after the eight-day Missouri
visit. The long-distance dynamic returned, but the texting stayed warm
and consistent all week. Monday's messages included nine photos and,
quote, miss you and our trip, end quote. Midweek conversations
covered E-Vs, insurance costs, speed bumps near her house, and
the sixty-five-page document saga. By Friday, she was sharing her
new Hylo Athletics running shoes, bird sightings, and a music
recommendation. She flagged that July time off needs coordination, which
is an open action item. Ben settled up the Friday
family dinner split and confirmed he's arriving Monday for carpet.
Maggie is getting interested in Claude after Jacob's demo, which
is either flattering or concerning depending on how the demo
went. The friend group was active. Dustin shared somber news
on Friday, quote, we lost a good one today, end
quote, with Alex responding, quote, Crossley? Damn, end quote. Context
is incomplete but the tone was heartfelt. On a lighter
note, Dustin got a no-parking sign installed across from his
driveway, which is the most significant infrastructure victory in Jefferson
City since the Capitol got air conditioning. Alex sent Apple
product rankings at eleven P-M on a Friday because Alex's
circadian rhythm runs on Cupertino time. CHAPTER SIX. THE WEEK
AHEAD. This is a loaded week. Here's what's coming. Monday,
March thirtieth. Ben arrives in Jeff City to help with
carpet. No work events scheduled, but the legislature is in
session. Tuesday, March thirty-first. Payday. Carpet install, nine A-M to
two P-M. This is the final home project in this
cycle. After this, the condo is in a settled state
for the first time since January. Wednesday, April first. Q-two
starts. Karen announces retirement at eleven A-M. Hiring projects begin
immediately after. Apple turns fifty. It's going to be a
big news day across every beat. Thursday, April second. The
big day. Anthropic pilot discussion at nine A-M. This is
your chance to make the case for Claude at work
while the legal cloud is lifting. Prep with the Claude
pilot explainer note from Apple Notes, the Learning Curves report,
and Judge Lin's ruling highlights. Also Thursday: dinner with Alex,
Chris, and Dustin at six P-M, Katelyn's off day, and
the government's appeal deadline on the Anthropic ruling. That's a
lot of load-bearing calendar space for one Thursday. Friday, April
third. Regular work day. Legislative session continues. May fifteenth last
day of session is forty-four days out. Other dates to
watch: May third, Katelyn and Jenn run the Tacoma City
Half Marathon. May ninth, your Capital City Race. June eighth,
W-W-D-C. July twenty-third, you in Washington. CHAPTER SEVEN. WHAT TO
WATCH. Three things to keep your eye on this week.
First, the government's Anthropic appeal decision. The deadline is Thursday.
If they appeal, the Ninth Circuit hears it within weeks.
If they don't, the injunction holds while the full case
proceeds. Either way, this will shape the mood of your
pilot discussion Thursday morning. Second, the Houthi Red Sea impact.
If Houthi forces resume targeting commercial shipping, the Iran war
premium on oil gets a second logistics premium on top.
Goldman's fourteen to eighteen dollar per barrel risk estimate may
prove conservative. Watch Monday's oil open. Third, Apple's fiftieth anniversary.
Wednesday is going to be wall-to-wall Apple coverage. The Siri
Extensions story, the Mac Pro death, the I-P-O pipeline for
the industry, and whatever celebration Apple has planned at Apple
Park. John Ternus, the heir-apparent C-E-O, will reportedly be center
stage. CHAPTER EIGHT. CLOSING. Here's the thing about this week,
Jacob. On paper, it was one of the most consequential
weeks of twenty twenty-six. A federal judge issued a landmark
A-I governance ruling. The Houthis opened a new front in
a war that's already reshaping global energy. Congress left sixty-one
thousand workers unpaid and went on vacation. Oil hit highs
not seen since twenty twenty-two. But in your life, the
week was quieter than the headlines suggest. You went back
to work after Spring Break. You corrected sixty-five pages. You
renewed a GitHub token. You watched from a distance as
a judge in San Francisco said the things you'd been
hoping she'd say. Katelyn switched running shoes. Ben figured out
the dinner split. Dustin got a parking sign. The next
week is where all the threads converge. Carpet on Tuesday.
Retirement on Wednesday. Anthropic on Thursday. Friends on Thursday night.
The condo gets settled. Q-two begins. And somewhere between the
pilot discussion and the dinner reservation, you'll find out whether
the government wants to fight a forty-three-page ruling or let
it stand. The carpet installers arrive at nine. The hiring
projects start at eleven. The appeal deadline is at close
of business. It's a week where the personal infrastructure and
the professional infrastructure are being built at the same time,
which, if you think about it, is the whole Year
of Integration in miniature. Enjoy the Saturday, Jacob. It's sixty
degrees and sunny. Go outside. The carpet can't install itself
until Tuesday, and neither can you. This has been your
weekly briefing for the week of March twenty-second through twenty-eighth.
Talk to you Monday morning.